[Music]
you like James Bond movies if you watch
Skyfall maybe you wondered what a weird
and spooky stage set they used in some
scenes a concrete island with tumbledown
houses and not a single tree or planner
out the gloomiest place on earth you've
ever seen for sure can it be real in
fact it is
welcome to Hazama Aseema is an island
nine miles from Nagasaki it's one of
many hundreds of uninhabited islands in
Nagasaki prefecture unlike others which
are green and covered with forests
Hazama looks like bare rocks with no
plants on them if you look closer you'll
see that the rocks are actually empty
high risers standing on man-made coastal
banks the key to the island secret is in
the coal mining 16 and a half million
tons of coal were taken from the oceans
bottom up to the surface near Hazama for
its century long history but in 1974 the
locals left the island forever for many
centuries people living on takashima
a big island not far from hai Sima
gathered coal which lay close to the
surface they used it to heat their
houses and call go heeta after the man
who as legend has it accidentally found
its fuel qualities in the 18th and 19th
centuries takashima Island was part of
feudal lands belonging to the Fuuka hora
family they saw the profit that coal
mining started to bring and took control
of all the bargains in their own lands
Islanders served as just a workforce to
them and soon coal mining became the
basis of the local economy in the 1850s
Nagasaki became an international port on
the way to China and a way station for
foreign commercial cargoes Great Britain
the USA and other Western countries were
replacing their sailing ships with
steamers and demand for coal was growing
it made the Fuuka Horry widen the
territory of coal mining they approached
a scotch entrepreneur Thomas B Glover
for help till that time the method of
coal extraction was very primitive a
miner had to cut pieces of coal from an
open service with a tribal when coal was
exhausted or the opencast got too deep
and unsafe they
just moved to another place Glover
brought modern British equipment and
drifted a vertical coal mine to the
island coal reserves in 1869 The
Drifters reached the depth of 150 feet
and modern coal mining began in Japan
takashima call had a high quality and
soon filled the Treasury of Nagasaki
with foreign currency Fuuka Horry made
up their mind to develop reserves on the
neighboring islands and this is how a
chain of lifeless rocks called Aseema
became a coal island - at the end of the
19th century they sold the island to
mitsubishi which was a shipping
enterprise that the new owner built
dwelling houses for workers and made
tall fortifications which had the island
looks similar to a battleship gliding on
the waves the resemblance was so strong
that a local newspaper reporter called
it Gunkanjima the island of ships the
nicknames soon displaced the official
name from the spoken word Hazama
produced about 150 thousand tons of coal
each year and his population in 1916 was
3,000 people it was then that mitsubishi
built a concrete residential complex to
make up for shortfall of living space it
was the first big concrete building in
Japan in fact the first big concrete
building in America Engels in Cincinnati
was built only 14 years earlier so
hicimos building was a frontman of the
new architectural era in Japan a six
storey house built at the south of the
island gave workers and their families
small but private apartments each of
them consisted of a 106 square foot room
with a tatami bathroom kitchen and
laboratory were in public use two years
later an even bigger residential complex
was built on the center of the island it
was the biggest in Japan had nine
stories from the Oceanside and three
from the rock side and it was only the
beginning a total of 30 concrete houses
were soon built on the island by 1941
the yearly production of Colin Hazama
reached 410 thousand tons and it kept
growing in 1959 the population of
Hashima was over 5,200 the total square
area of the island is 6.3
and 60% of it are rocky slopes where
most of the dwelling houses are built
any level surface of the island was
mainly used for facility buildings so
the density of population on Hashima was
835 people per hectare of the whole
island or 1,400 people per hectare of
the residential area Wow these figures
indicate the highest density of
population ever recorded in the world
even wahby the bedroom district of Tokyo
and the most densely populated city has
only 141 people per hectare between
residential houses there were squeezed a
primary school a secondary school a
playground gym a cinema bars restaurants
25 different stores and a Buddhist
church there were no motorized means of
transportation on the island because it
would take less than 10 minutes to walk
from one end of the island to the other
Hazama citizens had no umbrellas as the
mazes of corridors and stairs connected
all the dwelling houses and served as a
transport system housing electricity and
water were free for workers but all the
residents had to take part in public
works and cleanup of the territory as
for food clothes and other articles of
Commerce the community totally depended
on the outer world fresh water also had
to be brought to the island before the
tubes laid on the sea bottom connected
Hashima with the reservoir on the land
in 1957 any storm that stopped the
sailing for more than a day posed a
threat to living on high Sima the most
remarkable trait of this place was a
total absence of the ground in plants
Hashima was nothing more than coal ash
laid around a bare rock in 1963 as part
of a green campaign
Hazama residents brought soil from the
mainland and made gardens on the roofs
they started growing vegetables and
flowers there and the island started
looking a bit less gloomy but it wasn't
for long at the end of the 1960's
Japanese economy skyrocketed and coal
was admittedly an ecologically dirty
fuel oil soon replaced coal as the basis
of national energy programs
government started shutting down coal
mines around the country and Hashima
wasn't an exclusion the coal mining on
the island had always been difficult
because of the harsh climate storms
earthquakes and tsunamis are common in
this place and they had to keep
restoring fortification walls all the
time it took extra money and forces and
posed a risk for people living on the
island waves as high as 30 feet would
often fall in high simha turning its
streets into a rough River Mitsubishi
reduced staff on high Seema retrained
workers and sent them to other
subsidiaries by 1974 there were about
2,000 people left on the island and on
January 15 1974 the company officially
announced the closure of the mine in
three months all the residents of
Hashima left the island forever for the
84 years of its history it produced
about 16 and a half million tons of coal
Aseema now is an abandoned and forgotten
island which looks as a strange
lighthouse guarding the entrance to
nagasaki bay the modern state of the
island is the result of climate
influence nobody tried to destroy it on
purpose but all the buildings look as if
they suffered a military attack or
stayed uninhabited much longer the
island state is a warning about the
importance of wise forecasting this is
what may happen when society gets too
far from nature the whole world might
look like this after the end of
urbanization and exploitation of
resources for many years visits to the
island were forbidden and punished with
a deportation from Japan this was a
measure against thieves who would come
to Hashima in search of things they
could sell things from a ghost town were
in great demand among rich collectors
the island was rediscovered once again
in the 21st century and gained a wild
popularity especially among those who
are fond of ruins it started attracting
tourists from the West and in August
2005 it was officially open for
journalists visits in September 2008
Hashima or Gunkanjima Island was
included in the list to get the status
of UNESCO World Heritage as a monument
to a whole period of Japanese
three Nagasaki prefecture planned to
make a kind of a Park Museum of the
island renovate the decaying buildings
and open it for tourists but the project
demanded huge resources and it wasn't
fully put into place since April 2009
there are regular steamer cruises to the
island and around it from Nagasaki
tourists can come to Hasim ah but access
is open only to part of the island which
is specially equipped for visits and
considered safe any attempts to search
the island by oneself and leave the
tourist route are dangerous no wonder
that this scenic Island was used as a
location for shooting movies in 2009 it
was the location for the TV series life
after people as a living example of what
happens to a city left by people 35
years ago and in 2011 some of the most
thrilling and sinister scenes of Skyfall
were also filmed here so would you like
to see with your own eyes what happens
to cities uninhabited by people let me
know down in the comments hey if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't go uninhabited
somewhere just yet but we have over
2,000 cool videos for you to check out
just click on this left or right video
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life